\\ Created by Jack Marak
\\ On 9-22-2020
\\ Subject: Ethics of Cambridge Analytica's use of Social Media for Political Influence


In 2016 Cambridge Analytica, a British political consulting firm, built and used software that when installed would allow Cambridge Analytica to pull large amounts of Facebook data from the profiles of both you and your Facebook friends.  After acquiring this vast amount of data Cambridge Analytica built more software that would allow them to create and control many social media accounts all at once.  All of this was done in an effort to influence voters to vote for the main client of Cambridge Analytica, Donald J Trump.  In the spreadsheet included in the repo you will see the ethical quandaries I have outlined as well as some technical and socio-technical systems that are impacted by them.

Under the Ethical Quandary tab I have listed a few instances where It can be argued Cambridge Analytics crossed the line.  Assuming a fake persona is a deceiving act be it online or offline.  By using a fake persona an individual can villainies a person or group of people.  If I went online and said I was someone who was part of a group, I could then post horrible things and people may attribute those horrible things to that group.  People can also gain support from people who otherwise would not be interested through fake personas.  Spreading emotional propaganda can be detrimental to society as it can influence people without supplying reason.  Ultimately though It is my opinion that it is the responsibility of the individual to pick out bias on the internet.  Spreading misleading stories can be detrimental to society as it can influence people to worry about things that may not be real.  This can also cause a distrust in the mainstream media as people will be angry that they aren’t reporting on the crazy things they see on the internet.  Misreporting facts is an obvious ethical quandary as you are just straight up lying to people.  Again I believe It is the duty of the individual to check the facts they read on the internet, but fake news certainly doesn’t help.  Fear mongering is a horrible strategy for society.  Spreading propaganda to cause feelings of fear will only destabilize society.  Assuming the persona of multiple people allows one person to be exceedingly misleading as that single person can magnify their voice to be much larger than any other individual.  The ideas of one person can be perceived by others to be the opinion of the majority.  Using misinformation for influence is akin to lying.  Using misinformation for money is really a scam.  An example could be a spiritual shaman who treats life-threatening illnesses for money with the knowledge that their treatments are ineffective.